SIMD-0075: Secp256r1 Precompile (Supersedes SIMD-0048) (#75)
solana-foundation/solana-improvement-documents: proposals/0075-precompile-for-secp256r1-sigverify.md

The program instruction must be composed of the following struct:

In Pseudocode:

```
struct Secp256r1SigVerifyInstruction {
    count: uint8 LE,                          // Number of signatures to check
    padding: uint8 LE,                        // Single byte padding
    signatureOffsets: Array<Secp256r1SignatureOffsets>, // Array of structs
}

struct Secp256r1SignatureOffsets {
    signature_offset: uint16 LE,              // Offset to signature
    signature_instruction_index: uint8 LE,   // Instruction index to signature
    public_key_offset: uint16 LE,             // Offset to public key
    public_key_instruction_index: uint8 LE,  // Instruction index to  public key
    message_data_offset: uint16 LE,           // Offset to start of message data
    message_data_size: uint16 LE,             // Size of message data
    message_instruction_index: uint8 LE,     // Instruction index to message
}
```

Multiple signatures can be verified. If any of the signatures fail to verify,
an error must be returned.

If the instruction data is empty, the program must return an error.

If `count == 0` and the length of the instruction data > 1, the program must

> return an error.

Reviewer: I know existing precompiles have this check, but I think it's unnecessary.

Author: So in the case of ```count == 0``` the program passes, irrespective of the instruction data?

Reviewer: That would make sense to me, but I'd be interested in hearing from the folks who made this design decision for the other precompiles to make sure I'm not missing something.

Author: Will leave this unresolved until we get some more input from the other contributors 🫡

Reviewer 2: For this issue, I think it makes sense either way. This predates me but https://github.com/solana-labs/solana/pull/19300 has the justification for the count, which I think is reasonable.

Reviewer 3: > That would make sense to me, but I'd be interested in hearing from the folks who made this design decision for the other precompiles to make sure I'm not missing something.

This is done as a safeguard for smart-contracts. There have been a number of contracts that wanted to verify a single signature, and thus omitted the check for count.
They just used instruction introspection to assert that the correct data is present in the call to secp verify.

An attacker could thus call secp verify with a count of 0, and pretend to have a valid signature for arbitrary data.

This is obviously a bug in the smart-contract using secp, but having this count=0 check made for an easy fix to prevent this issue from cropping up. It makes no sense to call with a zero count and non-zero data after all.

Author: I guess as there's no document or SIMD detailing otherwise, I'd we just stay in line with [#19300](https://github.com/solana-labs/solana/pull/19300).

Thoughts @ptaffet-jump ?

> If `count == 0` and the length of the instruction data is not at least
> `count * Secp256r1SignatureOffsets + 1`, the program must return an error.

Reviewer: This should be 2 to include the padding byte, right? You should also make it clear that `Array` does not contain any padding between elements or any length prefixes.

```suggestion
If `count > 0` and the length of the instruction data is not at least
`count * sizeof(Secp256r1SignatureOffsets) + 2`, the program must return an error.
```

Author: absolutely correct, fixing 👍 

will also note the lack of length prefix and padding between elements, thanks for the suggestion 👍

The instruction processing logic must follow the pseudocode below:

```
/// `data` is the secp256r1 program's instruction data. `instruction_datas` is
/// the full slice of instruction datas for all instructions in the transaction,
/// including the secp256r1 program's instruction data.

/// length_of_data is the length of `data`

/// SERIALIZED_OFFSET_STRUCT_SIZE is the length of the serialized
/// Secp256r1SignatureOffsets struct

if length_of_data == 0 {
  return Error
}
count = data[0]
if count == 0 && length_of_data > 1 {
  return Error
}

> if length_of_data < (count * SERIALIZED_OFFSET_STRUCT_SIZE + 1) {

Reviewer: Again, this should be a +2, right?

Author: again correct, fixing. thx 👍 
not sure how I didn't notice this...

  return Error
}
instructions = instruction_datas;
for i in 0..count {

>     signature = instructions[signature_instruction_index].data[signature_offset..signature_offset+64]

Reviewer: You should add checks for indices and offsets being outside the range to the pseudocode

---
simd: "0075"
title: Precompile for verifying secp256r1 sig.
authors:
  - Orion (Bunkr)
  - Jstnw (Bunkr)
  - Dean (Web3 Builders Alliance)
category: Standard
type: Core
status: Draft
created: 2024-02-27
feature: (fill in with feature tracking issues once accepted)
supersedes: "0048"
---

## Summary

Adding a precompile to support the verification of signatures generated on
the secp256r1 curve. Analogous to the support for secp256k1 and ed25519
signatures that already exists in form of the
`KeccakSecp256k11111111111111111111111111111` and
`Ed25519SigVerify111111111111111111111111111` precompiles.

> The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL

Reviewer 4: Why is this a part of the SIMD? This is from the template as guidance on how to write the SIMD.

Author: Trent wanted me to reference RFC 2119 and it mandates the following: 
`Authors who follow these guidelines
 should incorporate this phrase near the beginning of their document:`

Author: Nudging this, would love to sort this out @jacobcreech 🤝

   - If the index is invalid, return Error
2. Return `length` bytes starting from `offset`
   - If this exceeds the `instruction_data` length, return Error

Note that fields (offsets) can overlap, for example the same public key or
message can be referred to by multiple instances of `Secp256r1SignatureOffsets`.

If the precompile `verify` function returns any error, the whole transaction
should fail. Therefore, the type of error is irrelevant and is left as an
implementation detail.

The instruction processing logic must follow the pseudocode below:

```
/// `data` is the secp256r1 program's instruction data. `instruction_datas` is
/// the full slice of instruction datas for all instructions in the transaction,
/// including the secp256r1 program's instruction data.

/// length_of_data is the length of `data`

/// SERIALIZED_OFFSET_STRUCT_SIZE is the length of the serialized
/// Secp256r1SignatureOffsets struct

/// SERIALIZED_PUBLIC_KEY_LENGTH and SERIALIZED_SIGNATURE_LENGTH represent the 
/// length of the serialized public key and signature respectively

function verify() {
  if length_of_data == 0 {
    return Error
  }
  num_signatures = data[0]

>   if num_signatures > 8 {

Reviewer 5: This is unnecessary as it's checked before running precompiles.

Author: resolved 👍

    return Error
  }
  if num_signatures == 0 && length_of_data > 1 {
    return Error
  }
  if length_of_data < (num_signatures * SERIALIZED_OFFSET_STRUCT_SIZE + 2) {
    return Error
  }
  all_tx_data = { data, instruction_datas }
  data_start_position = 2

  for i in 0..num_signatures {
      offsets = (Secp256r1SignatureOffsets) 
        all_tx_data.data[data_start_position..data_start_position + SERIALIZED_OFFSET_STRUCT_SIZE]
      data_position += SERIALIZED_OFFSET_STRUCT_SIZE

      signature = get_data_slice(all_tx_data,
                                offsets.signature_instruction_index,
                                offsets.signature_offset
                                signature_length)
      if !signature {
        return Error
      }

>       if signature_S == highS {

Reviewer 5: My personal preference is to not mix memory issues with logic issues, checking for highS can be done inside `sigverify`

Author: resolved 👍

      return Error
      }
      public_key = get_data_slice(all_tx_data,
                                  offsets.public_key_instruction_index,
                                  offsets.public_key_offset,
                                  SERIALIZED_PUBLIC_KEY_LENGTH)
      if !public_key {
        return Error
      }

      message = get_data_slice(all_tx_data,
                              offsets.message_instruction_index,
                              offsets.message_offset
                              offsets.message_length)
      if !message {
        return Error
      }

      // sigverify includes validating signature and public_key
      result = sigverify(signature, public_key, message)
      if result != Success {
        return Error
      }
    }
    return Success
}

> fn get_data_slice(all_tx_data, instruction_index, offset, length) {

Reviewer 5: This should be reused across precompiles.

Author: added a comment to make re-use and reference to SIMD-0152 explicit 👍
